We propose to study the birth of the first stars in the universe,
using low-frequency (<150 MHz) observations. These stars were born just a few hundred million years after the big bang and were
radically different from the ones we see today. Observing these
objects opens a new window into a part of the universe's history that
is poorly understood. We will study the first stars by measuring the
21-cm emission line of neutral hydrogen, which has been redshifted by
the expansion of the universe to <150 MHz frequencies. Perhaps the
greatest challenge of this measurement is terrestrial radio frequency
interference (RFI), which swamps the astronomical signal even when the
nearest RFI sources are hundreds of kilometres away. The sub-Antarctic
islands provide a unique opportunity to see the first stars due to
their extreme remoteness, over 2000 km from the nearest continents. We
propose to deploy SCI-HI, a low-frequency instrument, to Gough and
Marion islands to determine their suitability for studies of the first
stars. SCI-HI has already been deployed to Guadalupe Island (200 km
off the coast of Mexico), where the RFI was an order of magnitude
larger than the expected astronomical signal. With a detection being
tantalizingly close, there is strong motivation to redeploy SCI-HI to
Gough and Marion, where we expect lower RFI. If initial results are
promising, we propose to build a follow-on experiment at the better of
the two sites and to observe for a full winter. This extended
observation may make the first detection of the global signal from the
first stars, allowing us to learn how the universe lit up. The quiet
ionospheric conditions during the winter may also enable the first
measurements of the "dark ages," a period between the end of the big
bang and the ignition of the first stars. The extreme remoteness of
Gough and Marion islands is a unique geographical advantage for this
work, which would be impossible to do from virtually anywhere else on
the planet.
