"State the main research question or problem statement."

The primary goals for this proposal are two fold.

<<<<<<< HEAD
First, to test the islands (Marion, Gough) for suitability in low frequency radio astronomy applications. In particular, to investigate the Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) environment on the islands over the course of the year in the frequency range of 5-150 MHz.
=======
The universe was a very different place in its infancy.  Immediately
after the big bang, there were no stars or galaxies, or even any
elements heaver than helium (except for trace amounts of lithium and
beryllium).  Initially, the universe was too had for electrons and
protons to stick together to form neutral atoms, and since free
electrons are extremely efficient at scattering light, the universe
was opaque.  About 400,000 years after the big bang, the expanding
universe had cooled enough so that neutral hydrogen atoms formed, and
the universe became transparent.  We can see a snapshot of the
universe at this early time, called the Cosmic Microwave Background
(CMB).  We know from observations of the CMB that the universe was
then dark for around 500 million years at which point it lit up as the
first objects in the cosmos formed, but we know very little about how
this happened.  Even the 500-million year estimate for the dark ages
has considerable uncertainty in it. Today, heavy elements like carbon
and oxygen (called metals by astronomers) play a key role in how stars
form, even if they are present only in trace amounts.  However, the
first generation of stars would have looked very different due to the
total lack of metals.  They are expected to have been heaver and burnt
out much more quickly than today's stars.  In fact, despite intensive
searches, no metal-free stars have ever been found.  Because of the
finite speed of light, by looking far enough away, we can look back in
time and in principle watch the universe light up, but the distances
involved are tremendous and so we have yet to see the first stars.
So, due to the lack of data. we have only a very poor understanding of
the cosmic dawn.  One of the main goals of astronomy in the coming
decade is to try to understand how the universe went from dark to
light, full of stars and galaxies.

Perhaps the single most important tool we have to study the first
stars is the hyperfine line of atomic hydrogen.  There is a slight
energy difference between when the electron and proton spins are
aligned and opposite to each other, causing hydrogen to have a
spectral line at a rest-frame wavelength of 21-cm, or a frequency of
1.4 GHz.  Because the expansion of the universe stretches out light
travelling through it, we expect to see the 21-cm radiation from the
era of the first stars at much lower frequencies, around 100 MHz.
Light emitted earlier in the universe has been stretched out more, so
by looking at the hydrogen brightness as a function of frequency, we
can actually watch the first stars be born, heat the hydrogen, and
eventually ionize it, causing the 21-cm line to disappear.  

A first detection of the 21-cm line from the era of the first stars
(called the Epoch of Reionization or EoR) is one of the holy grails in
astronomy right now, and several groups are racing to measure it.
There are two main, and complementary, ways in which astronomers are
searching for it.  The first is using arrays of radio telescopes to
search for fluctuations in the 21-cm background caused by the
clumpiness of the young universe.  The Square Kilometre Array (SKA)
site in the Karoo hosts one such array (the Precision Array for
Probing the Epoch of Reionization, or PAPER) that has published some
of the best limits so far, and will host the next-generation Hydrogen
Epoch of Reionization Array, or HERA.  Proposers Sievers and Chiang
are part of both these efforts.  The second approach is to look at the
average hydrogen brightness across the whole sky.  This would tell us
the mean gas behaviour, and is information that arrays of telescopes
like PAPER and HERA are insensitive to.  Co-I Peterson is one of the
world leaders in this area, and his experiment SCI-HI has published
some of the best limits on the mean (global) hydrogen signal.  The
global brightness signal is actually fairly large - models vary
substantially due to our poor understanding of the universe at these
early times, but typical signals are in the range of a tenth of a
degree.  The challenge is in cleaning contaminating signals out from
the desired cosmological one.  The Milky Way emits copious amounts at
these low frequencies, with the average sky brightness ~1000K.  So, to
clean out the Milky Way is an analysis challenge.  Further, you may
recognize 100 MHz from FM radio stations.  At the critical frequencies
for EoR observations, man-made radio-frequency interference (RFI) is a
considerable challenge, and over the vast majority of land swamps even
the emission from the galaxy.  Global signal experiments like SCI-HI are
significantly more sensitive to RFI than the arrays searching for the
small-scale signals.  The flip side of this is that the global signal is
significantly larger than the small-scale one, so if the galaxy and
RFI can be dealt with, one only needs a few hours to a few days of
observing time with a very simple instrument to measure the EoR
signal.

South Africa has a unique geographical advantage in searching for the
global signal.  The sub-Antarctic islands (Marion and Gough) are some of
the most remote places on earth, 2000+ km from the nearest major
population centres.  Peterson & collaborators have already deployed
SCI-HI to Guadalupe Island, a volcanic island about 200 km of the
coast of Mexico.  While greatly reduced compared to continental sites,
there was still about one Kelvin of RFI (Voytek et al. 2014), an order
of magnitude larger than the expected signal.  That makes measuring
the global signal virtually impossible, since there is no easy way to
clean the RFI out from the data (unlike the galaxy, which should have
a simple behaviour as a function of frequency).  Since they ten times
further from continental landmasses and have no heavily populated
islands nearby, we expect Marion and Gough to have much less RFI,
hopefully low enough to allow us to directly measure, for the first
time, the original stars.  Our proposed project has two phases:
first, redeploying the SCI-HI experiment to Marion and Gough to test
the RFI environments there.  This would only require a few days at
each location and so would not require a winter-over.  Rather, just
going down via ship and running SCI-HI while the ship is in port
should be sufficient to determine if either island would be
appropriate.  SCI-HI is small and highly portable - about 2 metres
across, with an ordinary desktop computer required to run it, so
environmental impact would be negligible.  Ideally, we would also set
up SCI-HI away from the science bases to minimize locally generated
RFI (from, e.g. computers or power generation).  Should either site
look promising, the next phase would be to mount an antenna for a
winter season that would use knowledge gained from SCI-HI to improve
the design, and measure the global 21-cm EoR signal. 










First, to test the islands (Marion, Gough) for suitability in low frequency radio astronomy applications. In particular, to investigate the Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) environment on the islands over the course of the year in the frequency range of 10-150 MHz.
>>>>>>> upstream/master

Second, to develop and deploy a simple radio telescope system for measurement of the global hydrogen 21-cm signal in the same frequency range (5-150 MHz).
